To connect Lens to your Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) cluster, you'll need to follow a few steps, as it doesn't connect automatically. Here’s how to do it:

1. Install Lens
If you haven’t already, download and install Lens from the official website( https://k8slens.dev/)

2. Configure Access to Your AKS Cluster
Before you can connect Lens to your AKS cluster, you need to ensure you have the appropriate kubeconfig file set up.
Here’s how to do that:

Open Azure Cloud Shell or your local terminal where you have the Azure CLI installed.

Run the following command to configure your kubeconfig to access the AKS cluster:

(az aks get-credentials --resource-group <your-resource-group> --name <your-aks-cluster-name>  )

Replace <your-resource-group> with the name of your resource group and <your-aks-cluster-name> with the name of your AKS cluster.
This command updates your local kubeconfig file with the credentials and context for your AKS cluster.

3. Add AKS Cluster to Lens
Once you have the kubeconfig configured, you can add the cluster to Lens:

Open Lens.

Click on the "Add Cluster" button or the "+" icon in the left-hand navigation.

Choose the option to "Import existing kubeconfig".

Lens should automatically detect the kubeconfig from your default kubeconfig file (~/.kube/config). If it doesn't, you can manually select the kubeconfig file.

After selecting the correct context for your AKS cluster, click "Add Cluster".

4. Verify the Connection
Once added, you should see your AKS cluster listed in Lens. Click on it to verify that you can access your cluster resources, such as pods, services, and deployments.

Troubleshooting
If you encounter any issues connecting, ensure that your Azure CLI is authenticated and that you have the right permissions to access the AKS cluster.
You can also check your kubeconfig file for correct context entries by running kubectl config get-contexts.
With these steps, you should be able to connect Lens to your AKS cluster and manage your Kubernetes resources effectively!